"C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\bin\java" "-javaagent:C:\Program Files\JetBrains\IntelliJ IDEA 2017.1.1\lib\idea_rt.jar=56648:C:\Program Files\JetBrains\IntelliJ IDEA 2017.1.1\bin" -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8 -classpath "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\charsets.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\deploy.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\access-bridge-64.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\cldrdata.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\dnsns.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\jaccess.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\jfxrt.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\localedata.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\nashorn.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\sunec.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\sunjce_provider.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\sunmscapi.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\sunpkcs11.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\ext\zipfs.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\javaws.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\jce.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\jfr.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\jfxswt.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\jsse.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\management-agent.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\plugin.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\resources.jar;C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121\jre\lib\rt.jar;C:\Users\holma_000\Desktop\Probe_Data_Points\out\production\Probe_Data_Points;C:\Users\holma_000\Desktop\Probe_Data_Points\lib\freetts.jar;C:\Users\holma_000\Desktop\Probe_Data_Points\lib\jsoup-1.8.3.jar;C:\Users\holma_000\Desktop\Probe_Data_Points\lib\mysql.jar" Probe_Data_Points
System property "mbrola.base" is undefined.  Will not use MBROLA voices.
||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
mmmMmmMmMmm searching searching
Take a good look at what I just found
Ivanka #Trump jeered for defending father at women?s summit | News | DW.COM | 25.04.2017
trump
http://www.dw.com/en/ivanka-trump-jeered-for-defending-father-at-womens-summit/a-38585973
Português para África
Português do Brasil
Wrong language? Change it here
The crowd at the W20 summit in Berlin was not impressed with the first daughter blaming the media for allegations of sexism on the part of her father. Trump said her father has employed thousands of women over the years.
Ivanka Trump was met with jeers from the audience of a female empowerment summit in Berlin on Tuesday when she tried to defend her father's attitude towards women.
The moderator asked if US President Donald Trump could really be seen as a champion of equal rights. The question alluded to the controversy that erupted last October, when leaked audio recordings of Trump bragging about sexually assaulting women caused a firestorm of controversy during the presidential campaign.
12-year-old Ivanka Trump and her father, business magnate Donald Trump, peek over the crowd at the U.S. Open in New York, 1994. Ivanka Marie Trump was born in 1981 as the second child of Czech-American model Ivana Trump and Donald. Her parents divorced when she was 10 years old.
Ivanka Trump, holding her younger half-sister Tiffany, takes a picture with Donald Trump and his second wife Marla on her father's 50th birthday. Ivanka is one of four siblings.
16-year-old Ivanka Trump closes Thierry Mugler's haute couture show in Paris, 1997. Trump started modeling at the early age of 15 for Mugler and the likes of Versace and Paco Rabanne.
Teenage Ivanka Trump looks at her father, the multi-billionaire Donald Trump, at a polo club in Bridgehampton, New York, 1997.
Ivanka Trump speaks during the Ivanka Trump Collection runway launch in New York in 2012. Trump made a name for herself with her own multi-million-dollar businesses. She has sold everything from diaper bags and baby shoes to clothing and jewelry.
Ivanka und Donald Trump laugh at the Trump Tower Mall opening in Istanbul, 2012. Ivanka joined the family business in 2005 and, together with her two brothers Donald Jr. and Eric, has been acting as executive vice-president of the Trump Organization. She announced she would be taking a formal leave of absence from both the Trump Organization after her father took office.
Ivanka Trump, and her husband Jared Kushner step off of Air Force One with their children as they arrive in West Palm Beach, 2017. Trump and Kushner got married in 2009 and have three children together.
Ivanka Trump addresses supporters of her father's campaign in South Carolina, 2016. She had a central role in Donald Trump's campaign and has been regarded as a mobilizer for female voters in support of Trump.
Ivanka Trump und German Chancellor Angela Merkel whisper during a roundtable discussion in the Cabinet Room of the White House in March 2017. Last week the president's daughter came under fire for announcing she would become an advisor, without a specific title, but with an office in the White House.
Following criticism from ethics experts of her informal role in the White House, Ivanka Trump announced on Wednesday, she will become an official government employee. Her work as a presidential family member taking office in the White House, alongside her husband, continues to raise eyebrows.
In response, Ivanka cited the number of women whom her father has employed in senior positions at his companies and his support of her own business career. Before this, however, she riled the audience by deflecting some of the blame for the scandal towards journalists.
"I certainly heard the criticism from the media, and that's been perpetuated," she said, to loud boos from the audience atthe Women20 (W20) conference in Berlin.
Trump went on: "Thousands of women who have worked with and for my father…are a testament to his belief and solid conviction in the potential of women and their ability to do the job as well as any man."
Sitting next toGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel and International Monetary Fund (IMF) chief Christine LaGarde, Trump added that "I grew up in a house where there were no barriers to what I could accomplish…there was no difference for me and my brothers."
Trump vague on father's policies
The first daughter has made the economic empowerment of women apolicy issuethat she clearly claims to fight for. During a speech at the Republican National Convention last year, she promised to push for paid family leave and better childcare options for working parents.
However, when asked concretely about her father's plans to tackle inequality, Trump was vague. She said only that it was a priority for the administration to address the gender imbalance in the sciences and to break down "stifling" regulations, without elaborating which kind.
When asked earlier in the panel if she considered herself a feminist, Trump answered more emphatically in the positive than Merkel or LaGarde, though she added that the term had "become so loaded," that it "feels exclusionary of others."
Trump was furthered pressed to answer whether she was abroad representing herself a member of the US government oras a businesswoman. "Certainly not the latter," she said, but added that the role of being the president's daughter as well as one of his assistants was "rather unfamiliar," but that she was enjoying the "remarkable, incredible journey."
On the first day of the Women20 summit in Berlin, Chancellor Angela Merkel was joined by high-ranking women, Ivanka Trump and Christine Lagarde, to discuss the importance of scaling up global female entrepreneurship. (25.04.2017)
Ivanka Trump has attended a G20 gender equality meeting in Berlin. Donald Trump's daughter was in the limelight, but she neither deserved it nor took the chance to say anything of substance, says DW's Vanessa Fischer. (25.04.2017)
US President Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka Trump will be paying an official visit to Germany next week. She will be participating in the W20 summit in Berlin. (20.04.2017)
It was Angela Merkel's idea to invite Ivanka Trump to the G20 Women's Summit. The daughter of the US president will discuss the promotion of women entrepreneurs in Berlin. But what does Germany's Chancellor have in mind? (25.04.2017)
From rich kid to runway model to first daughter and now offical White House employee - Ivanka Trump's life has been all but conventional. Here are some pictures of her unorthodox trajectory. (30.03.2017)
With the Ivanka Trump show having moved on, the Women20 summit in Berlin may have been quieter. But it also felt like the way had finally been cleared to talk about what really matters.
On the first day of the Women20 summit in Berlin, Chancellor Angela Merkel was joined by high-ranking women, Ivanka Trump and Christine Lagarde, to discuss the importance of scaling up global female entrepreneurship.
It was Angela Merkel's idea to invite Ivanka Trump to the G20 Women's Summit. The daughter of the US president will discuss the promotion of women entrepreneurs in Berlin. But what does Germany's Chancellor have in mind?
DW News presents the most important news - in brief, quickly and up-to-date.
A man hangs his daughter while livestreaming it on Facebook. The images are accessible to anyone. Only after 24 hours do they get deleted by the social media site. How can such cases be prevented in the future?
© 2017 Deutsche Welle | Privacy Policy | Legal notice | Contact | Mobile version
100 days as president: #Trump?s top 5 campaign promises | Americas | DW.COM | 26.04.2017
America
america
president
campaign
trump
http://www.dw.com/en/100-days-as-president-trumps-top-5-campaign-promises/a-38583626
Português para África
Português do Brasil
Wrong language? Change it here
Donald Trump promised to swiftly check off the list of his campaign promises once he became president. What looked like a promising start for his administration quickly sunk into the mire of Washington.
Donald Trump the candidate was unapologetic in rhetoric and grandiose in promise: The Mexican border wall would be built and would be "beautiful"; Obamacare was a "disaster" that would be repealed and replaced with a better deal in "possibly the same hour"; hard-working Americans who had been ripped off by the "system" would have their jobs and dignity restored.
Trump still has more than 1,300 days left in office with which to accomplish his imposing list of campaign promises. But no one can deny he took a good whack at them in his first 100. Here's a look at where things stand:
1. Put a conservative judge on the Supreme Court: This is, without doubt, Trump's greatest triumph so far and underscores the reason many hesitant Republicans chose to swallow their bile and vote for him. An open Supreme Court seat, and the possibility of more to be filled, was too much to risk electing a Democrat. Like his fellow justices, Colorado conservative Neil Gorsuch has been appointed for life.
2. Repeal and replace Obamacare: This was themost public fail of the first 100 days. Obama's health care law - always controversial - began a swing upward in popularity as soon as Trump won the election, back in November, which became a problem for Republicans, whose centerpiece policy since the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) was passed has been trying to repeal it. But despite going after the ACA for seven years, when their moment to shine came, the GOP's competitor American Health Care Act took a swift nosedive and was pulled before an actual vote could take place.
Read: The conservative Republicans who killed Trump’s healthcare bill
3. Build the wall: Trump promised a fierce crackdown on immigration, legal and otherwise. In addition to Trump's call for the hiring of 10,000 new immigration agents, on his watch Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) stepped up raids and began deporting illegal immigrants, a move that included separating families and shipping back children who were (and are still legally) protected under the previous administration's policies.
And as for the wall itself? Trump's budget chief has said that appropriating money for the wall in the next year's budget for the government was "a must." Fox News announced that construction may begin as early as summer 2017. But funding the wall remains a subject of dispute between the president and Congress.
Read: German firms back off from building Trump's border wall
4. Ban Muslims from entering the US: The drama of Trump's first 100 days really got its start when he signed the first executive order banning any entry of citizens, or visa- and green card holders from seven Muslim-majority countries. Protests materialized at every major airport in the country. Lawsuits were filed. The Democrats closed ranks and even some Republicans spoke out against the executive order. When a court in San Francisco found the executive order unconstitutional, Trump implied he would take it to the Supreme Court. He later opted to simply sign a new executive order, this time banning entrants from only six countries. That executive order has also been suspendedand is making its way through the courts.
A border fence already stands in some places on the US-Mexican border
5. Put America first: This promise could be interpreted in several broad strokes - putting American economic interests first or disentangling the US from its foreign policy commitments. Many people thought it meant a promise to focus on the problems at home and ignore the rest of the world.
One of the biggest examples of this was Trump's early decision to withdraw from TTP (the Trans-Pacific Partnership), the controversial multilateral trade agreement pushed by both Obama and Clinton and negotiated over many years with the 12 Asian countries. He cited it as a "bad deal" that would hurt American businesses and workers.
Read: America first, Japan second
However, Trump seems to have learned that being the leader of the free world means occasionally having to engage with the world. Trump's first 100 days also saw the US's first concentrated military attack on Syria, a ratcheting up of tensions with North Korea, and him walking back his promise to tear up the "bad" Iran deal. Polls indicate his America First-base is still behind him, but he hasn't been able to win over new supporters.
US President Donald Trump's pick for the country's top court has been sworn in. Neil Gorsuch's debut as the ninth Supreme Court justice ends a year-long political battle over the late Antonin Scalia's replacement. (10.04.2017)
A key vote by the US House of Representatives on a health care bill to dismantle Obamacare has been withdrawn. The new law would have increased the number of Americans without health insurance. (24.03.2017)
Hours before it would have gone into effect, a US judge froze an executive order temporarily banning citizens of six mainly Muslim nations from the United States. President Trump called the ruling "judicial overreach." (16.03.2017)
Trump has removed Iraq from his controversial travel ban and delayed its implementation to avoid repeated chaos. The Iraqi government hailed its removal from the list as an "important step." (06.03.2017)
The new orders will allow agents to deport almost all undocumented immigrants anywhere in the United States. An increase in the number of US immigration agents is also planned. (22.02.2017)
The new US president has signed an executive order to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership with 12 Asian countries, warning US businesses that they face penalties if they moved production outside the country. (23.01.2017)
US President Donald Trump and wife Melania have hosted their first White House Easter Egg Roll. Welcoming thousands of children, Trump said his government was "on track" to making America "stronger, bigger and better."
President Donald Trump’s agenda for his first 100 days is ambitious. Here’s a look at four important issues he has promised to tackle right after taking office and how likely it is that he will succeed.
Judges expressed skepticism over the need for the travel ban, asking whether there was any evidence of a link between the seven countries and terrorism. The court said a decision would come "as soon as possible."
A clash on the Iran-Pakistan border has left 10 Iranian border guards dead. The Army of Justice, which has previously attacked Iranian security forces, has claimed responsibility for the violence.
For the first time in its 69-year history, a member of the Organization of American States has said it will leave. Caracas accuses the bloc of being a pawn of the US, claiming protesters are attempting a US-backed coup.
More than 9,000 personnel have been temporarily suspended from Turkey's police force while they are investigated for suspected links to US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen. The cleric was blamed for last year's failed coup.
The US aims to pressure North Korea into ending its nuclear and ballistic missile programs with tightened sanctions and diplomacy. Top officials hope to end the standoff peacefully, but have also raised military options.
Edward Dean’s parents voted to leave the EU - while he was studying to become a diplomat in Brussels. Brexit has shattered his and his fellow students' dreams at the College of Europe in Bruges. Maria Christoph reports.
A man hangs his daughter while livestreaming it on Facebook. The images are accessible to anyone. Only after 24 hours do they get deleted by the social media site. How can such cases be prevented in the future?
© 2017 Deutsche Welle | Privacy Policy | Legal notice | Contact | Mobile version
US begins #deployment of controversial Korean THAAD missile system | News | DW.COM | 26.04.2017
Korea
missile
deploy
korea
plo
http://www.dw.com/en/us-begins-deployment-of-controversial-korean-thaad-missile-system/a-38590287
Português para África
Português do Brasil
Wrong language? Change it here
Just weeks after agreeing to early deployment of a contentious US missile defense system, key components have been installed in South Korea. The system is being built in response to the North's ballistic missile program.
On Wednesday, six trailers carrying parts of the THAAD system arrived at a former golf course in the county of Seongju in the country'ssouthern region, Yonhap news agency and YTN television reported.
Can't find diphone y-t
Can't find diphone y-t
Television footage showed military trailers carrying equipment, including what appeared to be launch canisters, being driven into the planned THAAD battery site, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) south of Seoul.
Admiral Harry Harris, the top UScommander in the Asia-Pacific region, told Congress on Wednesday that he expected the missile defense system to be operational within the coming days. Earlier, South Korea's Defense Ministry confirmed the start of the full-scale deployment, saying it hoped to secure "operational capability of the THAAD as soon as possible," with a goal of fully installing the batteries by the end of this year.
"South Korea and the United States have been working to secure an early operational capability of the THAAD system in response to North Korea's advancing nuclear and missile threat," the South's Defense Ministry said in a statement.
Local journalists posted images of the trucks online.
The arrival sparked clashes between locals and police, Yonhap reported. Around 2,000 people rallied with banners reading: "No THAAD but peace," while riot police were mobilized to maintain order and stop protesters reaching the installation site.
South Korean Army soldiers rappel down during a South Korea-U.S. joint military live-fire drill at Seungjin Fire Training Field in Pocheon, South Korea, near the border with North Korea.
Can't find diphone s-ng
Can't find diphone s-ng
In Pocheon, 65 kilometers northeast of Seoul, South Korea’s self-propelled guns, as well as multiple rocket launchers, fired off dozens of volleys toward mock targets.
South Korean K1A2 tanks fire live rounds at a training field near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas. Some 100 artillery pieces, 90 armoured vehicles and 50 aircraft, as well as 2,000 South Korean and US troops, the defence ministry said.
The US has begun deploying parts of the controversial Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile system at its site in South Korea. THAAD is designed to intercept and destroy short and medium-range ballistic missiles during their final phase of flight. The US and South Korea are deploying the missile system in response to the ongoing development of North Korea's ballistic missile program.
On the other side of the border in North Korea, leader Kim Jong-Un oversaw the country's largest-ever firing drill, which saw more than 300 large-calibre self-propelled guns firing simultaneously and torpedo attacks by submarines, state-run KCNA agency said.
The drill marked the 85th anniversary of the founding of the North Korea's armed forces, and heightened international worries that it may be preparing another nuclear test.
Author: Nadine Berghausen
The US and South Korea are deploying the missile system in response to the ongoing development of North Korea's ballistic missile program, which has continued despite multiple sets of United Nations sanctions.
The system is intended to interceptand destroyshort and medium-range ballistic missiles during their final phase of flight.
Harris also said that the US military was weighing whether to install new missile interceptors on Hawaii, which would be one of the first US targets to be in range of a North Korea missile attack.
China 'strongly opposed' to deployment
The USS Michigan arrived at a naval base in Busan, South Korea on Tuesday
Washington and Seoul agreed to an early rollout of the THAAD system after talks earlier this month between the South's acting president and visiting US Vice President Mike Pence.
China said it was strongly opposed to the deployment, sanctioning South Korean firms in response. It called for calm on the Korean peninsula amid thedeployment of a US carrier group to the region.
"[China] hopes that all relevant sides exercise restraint, and avoid doing anything to worsen the tense situation on the peninsula," Chinese President Xi Jinpingwas paraphrased as saying in a statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry.
China said THAAD would do little to dissuade North Koreabut would destabilize the regional security balance while itspowerful radar could penetrate China's territory and undermine its security.
In February, China banned all coal imports from North Korea. Under tight conditions, North Korea may still export $400.87 million (374 million euros) or 7.5 million metric tons of coal per year, whichever is less. Pictured here is China's Liaoning Greenland Energy Coal Co. in Dandong, on the border with North Korea.
North Korea is prohibited from opening banks abroad, and UN member states are prohibited from operating financial institutions on Pyongyang's behalf. Any dealings that might help North Korea skirt the sanctions are banned, and UN member states must expel and repatriate anyone working on the regime's financial behalf.
This North Korean cargo ship found itself boarded for inspection in the Philippines in March 2016 after the United Nations ordered member nations to de-register any vessel owned, operated or crewed on orders from Pyongyang. North Korean ships also cannot fly the flags of other nations to evade sanctions.
Air Koryo, North Korea's national carrier, remains exempt from aviation sanctions and still has scheduled flights to China and Russia, as well as several domestic routes. However, the airline cannot fly to the European Union, which has banned it on safety grounds, and the United States prevents citizens from legally conducting business with the carrier.
In theory, North Koreans can still cruise the country in Pyeonghwa sedans, as UN sanctions only currently ban the sale of aviation, jet and rocket fuel to Pyongyang. Crude and similar oils remain permitted - for now. The automaker, owned in a joint venture with the deceased North Korean Reverend Sun Myung Moon's influential Unification Church, only cranks out a few hundred cars a year.
UN sanctions limit North Korea's diplomats abroad - at the country's Berlin embassy, for example - to only one bank account each. North Korea is also not permitted to own real estate abroad for any purposes other than consular.
It's a safe bet that North Korea's marching military did not learn its moves abroad: UN sanctions ban foreign security forces from training the country's army, police or paramilitary units. The United Nations does permit medical exchanges, but otherwise allow very little assistance of scientific or technical value.
Anyone wanting to own a larger-than-life Kim will have to await the end of North Korea's nuclear program. The UN sanctions currently ban the sale of statues by the nation.
International concerns were heightened in recent weeks with fears the North could soon carry out another nuclear test or missile launch, in defiance of United Nations sanctions.North Korea announcedon Wednesday that it had conducted its "largest-ever" live-fire drill to mark the 85th founding anniversary of its military, with more than 300 large-caliber, self-propelled artillery guns demonstrating their firepower at an event on its east coast.
On Wednesday, US President Donald Trump is scheduled to discuss North Korea in Washington with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis.
As US, Japanese and South Korean warships carried out joint exercises, Pyongyang marked a national anniversary with an artillery drill. The saber-rattling coincided with a flurry of diplomatic activity in Tokyo. (25.04.2017)
China's president has urged US President Donald Trump to show restraint in dealing with North Korea. Trump also spoke with Japan's premier Shinzo Abe as a US fleet heading to Korean waters trained with Japanese warships. (24.04.2017)
The US vice president has made a trip to an American base in South Korea close to the heavily fortified border with North Korea. He said the US "era of strategic patience" with Pyongyang was over. (17.04.2017)
Given the choice between trade with China and protecting its citizens, South Korea is opting to do what it can to minimize the danger posed by North Korea's missile and nuclear weapons programs. Julian Ryall reports. (02.03.2017)
North Korea sees the proposal to deploy a US missile defense system in South Korea as a further provocation by Washington. DW takes a look at how the plans may impact the region. (23.02.2016)
Around 2,000 South Korean and US troops have taken part in a joint military manoeuvre. This comes after North Korea announced it had conducted its "largest-ever" live-fire drill. (26.04.2017)
International observers say North Korea continues to flout bans on its pursuit of a nuclear weapons program. The UN Security Council has increased sanctions on the country. (19.04.2017)
The US aims to pressure North Korea into ending its nuclear and ballistic missile programs with tightened sanctions and diplomacy. Top officials hope to end the standoff peacefully, but have also raised military options.
US and Korean troops are deployed in South Korea along with THAAD missile defense system. The US says it’s needed to counter the rising threat from North Korea, while China says its own security is threatened.
Around 2,000 South Korean and US troops have taken part in a joint military manoeuvre. This comes after North Korea announced it had conducted its "largest-ever" live-fire drill.
DW News presents the most important news - in brief, quickly and up-to-date.
A man hangs his daughter while livestreaming it on Facebook. The images are accessible to anyone. Only after 24 hours do they get deleted by the social media site. How can such cases be prevented in the future?
© 2017 Deutsche Welle | Privacy Policy | Legal notice | Contact | Mobile version
Kurds call on US to set up no-fly zone after Turkish #attacks
attack
http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2017/04/turkey-strike-kurds-sinjar-syria.html
English Newsletter Arabic Newsletter Hebrew Newsletter Turkish Newsletter
Members of the Sinjar Resistance Units, a militia affiliated with the Kurdistan Workers Party, stand in the village of Umm al-Dhiban, northern Iraq, April 29, 2016.(photo byREUTERS/Goran Tomasevic)
Tensions between Turkey and the United States are poised to escalate after the Turkish air force carried out a series of pre-dawn strikes against Kurdish militants in Iraq’s Sinjar region and northeastern Syria, killingfoes and friends alike, with potentially disruptive effects on the war against the Islamic State.
Five peshmerga fighters attached to the Kurdistan Regional Government(KRG),Turkey’s closest regional ally, perished in the airstrikes on Mount Sinjar. At least 20 fighters from the Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG),the US-led coalition’s top ally in the fight against the jihadis in Syria, were killed when Turkish jets hit their headquarters in Mount Qarachok near the town of al-Malikiyah, known as Derik in Kurdish. A building housing a local radio station was also destroyed in the attack.
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
The strikes come at an especially critical moment, as the US-led coalition presses its offensive against ISin Raqqa.
Officials from the US-led coalition familiar with the details of the strikes said Turkish officials had informed the United States of its plans before they were executed. The officials told Al-Monitor on strict condition that they not be identifiedthat Turkey had sought to coordinate the strikes with the Qatar-based Combined Air Operations Center (CAOC), which controls and commands the air campaigns in Syriaand Iraq, among others, with US allies. According to one of the officials,“CAOC turned them down.” Turkey went ahead with the strikes anyway.
A Central Command spokesman responding to Al-Monitor’s queries via email said, “The Coalition is aware of the Turkish airstrikes in northern Iraq and Syria.As we've said in the past, all of Iraq’s neighbors need to respect Iraqi sovereignty and territorial integrity.We encourage all forces to remain focused on the greatest threat to regional and worldwide peace and security and concentrate their efforts on [IS] and not toward objectives that may cause the Coalition to divert energy and resources away from the defeat of [IS] in Iraq and Syria.”
A Syrian Kurdish officialtold Al-Monitor on condition of anonymityan unspecified number of US special forceshad been “uncomfortably close” to Qarachokwhen the Turkish jets struck.
A coalition officialcorroborated this version but declined to elaborate. This suggeststhat Turkey may have not properly implemented de-confliction measures agreed with the coalition designed toallow allied forces ample time to move out of harm’s way.The peshmerga casualties in Sinjar also point to flawed intelligence on the Turkish side.
A commander with the YPG-led Syrian Defense Forcesblamed US President Donald Trump for the Turkish attacks. “If Trump had not telephoned [Turkish PresidentRecep Tayyip] Erdogan and congratulated him and then invited him to Washington, Turkey would have never felt emboldened to behave in a manner that hurts us and hurts the US fight against [IS],” the SDF commander said in an interview via WhatsApp.
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
The commanderwas referring to the April 17phone call Trump made to Turkey’spresident to congratulate him a day after he narrowly won a referendum giving him unprecedented powers that his critics say amount to one-man rule.
Many administration officialsincluding Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who was in the room with Trump during the exchange, are said to have been opposed to giving the Turkish leader carte blanche, especially since internationalmonitorssaid it was riddled with irregularities. The consensus among administration officials was that Erodgan’s burning desire for a US stamp of approval legitimizing this contested outcome could have been leveraged for pledges of greater cooperation, notably in Syria. The opportunity was squandered and Erdogan is due to be received by Trump in Washington on May 16.
After today’s strikes the mood is even darkerand there is strong pressure on the White House from theadministration and Syrian Kurdish officialsfor a public denunciation of Turkey’s actions. “The United States must take a clear stand against Turkish aggression,” said Ilham Ahmed, the co-chair of the Democratic Syrian Council. “We are fighting against [IS] with the United States and Turkey is hitting us from behind, giving [IS] more oxygen,” she fumed in a telephone interview with Al-Monitor. “We demand that the United States establish a no-fly zone to protect us against further aggression.”
In a show of solidarity, US forces based in northern Syria inspected the fallout in Qarachok. But it will not be enough to appease Kurdish worries over further Turkish attacks.
The Turkish General Staff justified its actions in a statement today, saying they were intended to prevent members of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) from funneling “terrorists, arms, ammunition and explosives to Turkey.” The PKK has been waging a bloody insurgency for Kurdish self-rule inside Turkey since 1984 and is closely linked with the YPG, which reveres imprisoned PKK founder Abdullah Ocalanas its leader as well. Turkey sees no difference between the two groups, labeling both terrorists and demanding that the United States ditch its alliance with the YPG.
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
The United States has tried to maintain a precarious juggling act of humoring Turkey, a critical NATO ally and home to the Incirlik Air Base vital to US operations throughout the region,while maintaining its military partnership with the Syrian Kurds.
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
Washington justifies its positionon the grounds that although the PKK is on its list of terrorist organizations, the YPG is not. The United States is thus able to continue to arm and train YPG fighters while providing Turkey with real-time intelligence on the PKK. Turkey says it’s had enough of US duplicity as it sees it and has been threatening to take matters into its own hands.
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
Nicholas AHeras, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, described Turkish thinking to Al-Monitor: "The Turkish military, like the Americans, has decided that it will aggressively target what it views to be the lines of supply and reinforcement for the PKK between eastern Turkey, Syriaand Iraq. Derik in Syria has been long viewed by the Turkish military as a key refuge city for the PKK network, and Sinjar and its surrounding areaa forward operating base for the PKK to target the Turkish forces deployedor soon to be deployedin northwest Iraq around Mosul.”
Heras added,“The Turkish military is sending the message that its war against the PKK does not stop at Turkey's borders, and that there will be no refuge for the PKK anywhere.”
Turkey is also worried about Iran’s growing influence in Iraq and Syria and insists that the PKK and Shiitemilitias are acting in concert to cement this. These concerns are shared by the KRG and particularly by Massoud Barzani, the president of the Iraqi Kurdistan Regionand leader of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, and were reflected in the KRG’s statement on the airstrikes. It called the airstrikes “painful and unacceptable” but much of its ire was focused on the PKK, calling the attacks a result of its presence in Sinjar. “The PKK has been problematic for the people of the Kurdistan Region and, despite broad calls to withdraw, refuses to leave Sinjar,” the statement read. The PKK and its Yazidi affiliates have controlled parts of Sinjar ever since the PKK and YPG fighters intervened to rescue thousands of Yazidis facing imminent slaughter by IS in August 2014.
Can't find diphone y-p
Can't find diphone y-p
Barzani enjoys unusually warm ties with Erdogan and is said to have urged his supporters in Turkey to vote in favor of the referendum.
Turkey’s strongman gave the KRG’s moves towardindependence one of its biggest boosts when he allowed the Iraqi Kurds to export their oil independently of Baghdad via a pipeline running to export terminals on Turkey’s Mediterranean coast.
The move further soured relations between Turkey and the central government in Baghdad. These dipped to an all-time low when Turkey moved hundreds of its special forces to a base near the town of Bashiqa northwest of Mosul in December 2015.
Turkey insists that its men are there to train Sunni Arab fighters taking part in the battle for Mosul and to defend Sunni Turkmens in the IS-held town of TalAfar from possible retaliatory attacks by Shiitemilitias.But the main reason for their presence, Turkish officials acknowledge, is to scuttleIran and the PKK’s alleged plans to establish a corridor running from the PKK’s bases straddling the Iran-Iraq border via Sinjar and all the way onto Syria’s Mediterranean coast.
None of this washes with Iraq’s embattled Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, who is being accused of weakness in the face of Iraq’s erstwhile Ottoman potentates.
Abbas Kadhim, a senior policy fellow at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, told Al-Monitor, “Turkish-Iraq relations have witnessed great tension since the IS capture of Mosul.The Turkish troops in Bashiqa, the IS fighters' passage through Turkey, Turkey's hosting of several anti-Iraqi government eventsand the continued hostile statements by Turkish officials toward Iraq have pushed the bilateral relations to high levels of tension.”
In the wake of today’s strikes, “Abadi will be in a very hard position and will have to show that he cannot tolerate this continued Turkish hostility,” Kadhim noted.“He tried several times to reconcile with Turkey, but every new hostility opens old and new cases and makes his task harder.”
Read More: http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2017/04/turkey-strike-kurds-sinjar-syria.html
Amberin Zaman is ajournalist who has covered Turkey, the Kurds and Armenia for The Washington Post, The Daily Telegraph, The Los Angeles Times and the Voice of America. She served as The Economist's Turkey correspondent between 1999 and 2016. She was a columnist for the liberal daily Taraf and the mainstream daily Haberturk before switching to the independent Turkish online news portal Diken in 2015. She is currently a public policy scholar at The Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, DC, where she is focusing on Kurdish issues. On Twitter: @amberinzaman
©2017 Al-Monitor. All rights reserved.
Get Al-Monitor delivered to your Inbox Sign Up Now
Cookies help us deliver our services. By using them you accept our use of cookies. Learn more... X
Inside the #Trump Marriage: Melania’s Burden | Vanity Fair
trump
http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/04/donald-melania-trump-marriage
From the Magazine
Inside the Trump Marriage: Melania’s Burden
Until November 8, Melania Trump’s marriage provided her with a golden Fifth Avenue fortress, at a price—putting up with her husband’s humiliations and boorishness. From Melania’s ill-fated campaign appearances to her apparent reluctance to embrace the role of First Lady: how a very private woman is coping with the intense public scrutiny of her marriage.
Left, Melania (right) with fellow model Emma Eriksson during a 1995 photo shoot; Right, at a party at Marquee, a New York nightclub, in 2004.
The couple with Donald’s daughter Ivanka at the 2004 Met Gala.
Left, Melania picks up her son, Barron, from school, in New York, in 2016; Right, in the White House before leaving for Mar-a-Lago on March 17.
Donald and Melania at the Inaugural Luncheon, at the Capitol.
Donald and Melania Trump’s Marriage in Photos
Evgenia Peretz has been a contributing editor at Vanity Fair since 1999, covering a wide range of topics.
The Heart of the Deal: The Love Story of Marla Maples and Donald Trump
How First Ladies Have Used Fashion for Diplomacy
Silicon Valley Murder Mystery: How Drugs and Paranoia Doomed Silk Road
Ivanka’s “Massive” New Fund Could Be an Ethical Minefield
Donald Trump Stands to Make Millions Off His Own Tax Plan
Around the Web
Traditionally, presidents have at least made a show of having healthy, happy marriages. Even the Clintons, despite marital troubles, appeared to have moments of genuine affection, humor, and bonding. But from almost the first moments of Inauguration Day, during the ceremonial arrival at the White House, it seemed something was amiss with the Trumps. Perhaps you’ve seen the clip: Donald and Melania’s black S.U.V. arrives at the White House, where Barack and Michelle Obama are waiting to greet them. Donald bolts from the car and marches up the stairs, leaving behind Melania, in her powder-blue, Jackie-esque suit, carrying a large Tiffany box. (Presidents Obama, Bush, and Clinton all escorted their wives at this moment.) This snapshot of the Trump marriage was soon followed by other odd moments. During Franklin Graham’s blessing, Donald turned around to look at Melania. She smiled momentarily. But once his back was turned, her face fell into a miserable frown. Later that night, as the president and First Lady had their “first dance,” twice over, to “My Way,” she was often stiff and pulling away from his face.
#SaveMelania and #SadMelania were soon trending on Twitter. The next day, protesters at the Women’s March carried signs that said, FREE MELANIA. A fashion fixture who’s known the Trump clan for decades shared with me his fantasy: “My dream is that Michelle Obama will convince her to leave him, and she’ll become this great feminist icon. She will walk into the middle of everything and say, ‘He’s crazy. This is nuts. I don’t know what I was doing!’ ”
Alas, a Hollywood ending this exciting is unlikely. After two high-maintenance wives, Donald Trump seems deliberately to have chosen as his third a woman who would be both bombshell and cipher, a physical testament to his manhood and amazingness. She would be decorative and polite, not needy and annoying. “I’m not a nagging wife,” Melania has declared a couple of times—her manifesto. According to some of Trump’s friends and associates, she has stuck to it.
“She enjoys her role of stepping back and letting him take center stage,” says decorator friend William Eubanks, who spent Thanksgiving with the Trumps at Mar-a-Lago, along with romance-novel-cover model Fabio and boxing promoter Don King. According to Lisa Bytner, who did P.R. for Trump Model Management when it was launched in 1999, and became a friend of the couple’s, Trump found in Melania the perfect mate. “She doesn’t make waves,” says Bytner. “She speaks only when spoken to. She’s just very sweet.” Except, in public, when called upon to defend her husband’s demeaning attitudes toward women, or to be a mouthpiece for some of his offensive claims, such as birtherism.
And yet, woefully pliant as Melania may be, even she may have a breaking point. Over the course of reporting this story, for which her close friends declined to talk, an uneasy picture has emerged of their marital union. Melania’s unhappiness and the couple’s apparent lack of closeness are becoming more noticeable. Despite assurances from her spokesperson, Stephanie Grisham, that Melania is embracing the role of First Lady, most signs point to a distinct lack of interest. And while Grisham says Mrs. Trump plans to move to the White House once their son, Barron, “finishes out the school year,” there have been indications that she is in no particular rush.
Left, Melania (right) with fellow model Emma Eriksson during a 1995 photo shoot; Right, at a party at Marquee, a New York nightclub, in 2004.
Once upon a time, it was a story that made perfect sense: a Slavic How to Marry a Billionaire. Melanija Knavs, the determined daughter of a former Communist Party member, grew up in Slovenia, where she and her older sister, Ines, learned from their parents’ ambition for upward mobility. Having creative aspirations, she studied design at the University of Ljubljana. But after she won runner-up in a beauty contest, she dropped out, hoping to put Slovenia behind her and become a model.
Her quest took her to Paris and Milan, where, in 1995, she had the good luck of meeting Paolo Zampolli—a co-owner of Metropolitan Models, a pal of Donald’s, and a gregarious playboy—who was on a scouting trip in Europe. “I told Melania, ‘If you would like to come to try the United States, we’d like to represent you,’ ” recalls the fast-talking Zampolli in his Gramercy Park town house. “I say very simple, ‘Please come.’ ” Melania was in.
Zampolli says he secured Melania’s visa. In 1996 she moved to New York City, settling into Zeckendorf Towers, on Union Square, where Zampolli set her up with a roommate, a photographer named Matthew Atanian. Unlike many twentysomethings, who come to New York City with an unquenchable lust for experience, Melania, according to Atanian, had little interest in nightlife or making friends. When she went out, it seemed to be with older men, only for dinner, and she always came home before her roommate had gone out, he says. (Grisham says that Melania did not do much dating, due to her “extensive travel schedule” as a model.) Demonstrating admirable Slavic discipline, “she wore ankle weights around the apartment and the common areas,” recalls Atanian. “She would strictly eat five to seven vegetables and fruits every day. She drank a lot of water . . . . She was looking to make money [as a model].”
But, according to Atanian, Melania was getting only second- and third-tier modeling work, and, at age 26, time was running out. Atanian, then shooting for Marie Claire, recalls her asking him to help her get in the magazine. He sensed it was hopeless. “She was always kind of a stiff person. That’s why she wasn’t a successful model, because she couldn’t move.”
Fortunately, Melania captured the attention of Donald Trump at a party, thrown by Zampolli, at the Times Square nightclub the Kit Kat Club, during Fashion Week in September 1998. Trump had come with a date, Norwegian cosmetics heiress Celina Midelfart, but when she went off to use the bathroom, Trump approached Melania and asked for her number. She took his number instead—a story she tells proudly. Soon they were at the 1990s Greenwich Village hot spot Moomba, starting a romance. Atanian and one of their model friends ribbed Melania, he says, coming out “with remarks such as ‘Oh, it’s the small hands you like, not the money, right? The comb-over, the dashing good looks.’ Melania would say, ‘Stop it, stop it.’ Her rap was ‘He’s a real man.’ ”
“All these European models, they’re tough as hell. They know what they’re doing. They’ve been watching the Americans forever,” says photographer Harry Benson, who has shot numerous First Couples, and Melania at least twice.
The union made perfect sense for Donald too. After demanding Ivana and needy Marla, Melania would be the perfect mate, one who would be an advertisement for his virility while giving him his “space.” Federico Pignatelli, a longtime Trump friend and business associate, who founded the fashion studio Pier 59, says, “Ivana was an intelligent, entrepreneurial woman. Also a very strong-minded person and very feisty. While instead, Melania . . . really no fights.” For her part, Melania would get a luxurious home where she could indulge her hobbies—Pilates and reading fashion magazines, according to People—in peace, and a promise that she would never have to return to drab Eastern-European prospects. Donald accompanied Melania to her homeland once. “I was there for about 13 minutes,” he later said to Larry King with Melania by his side. “We landed. I said, Hi, Mom. Hi, Dad. Bye.” Eventually Trump brought her family over to New York (where her parents now live for most of the year), allowing her to cut ties with the Old Country.
For a few years, the relationship worked perfectly. Propping up Donald’s sexual prowess called for some public self-degradation, but Melania, as his girlfriend, was willing to do it. In 1999, shortly after they began dating, she participated in an on-air phone call with Trump and Howard Stern, as they discussed her chest, and whether she stole money from Donald’s wallet. When Stern asked to talk to “that broad in your bed,” Trump put her on the line, and she spoke about how they had sex more than daily, and revealed that she was nearly nude. Stern replied, “I have my pants off already.” Thanks to her relationship with Trump, she finally got her glossy-magazine spread—nearly naked in British GQ, handcuffed to a briefcase on a private jet, which Trump supplied. Managing the career moves of his companions was part of a pattern. While he was still married to Ivana, Trump pushed his girlfriend Marla Maples to pose nude in Playboy and reportedly negotiated the fee himself. (The deal fell through.)
The couple with Donald’s daughter Ivanka at the 2004 Met Gala.
After almost seven years of dating Melania, Donald finally married her, in 2005, with a lavish reception at Mar-a-Lago, studded with A-list folk from the entertainment and news businesses—many of whom Donald now despises. As a wife, Melania became a dutiful spokeswoman for his self-proclaimed success. Michael D’Antonio, author of The Truth About Trump, recalls the exchanges he witnessed between her and Donald at Trump Tower. “He begged her to praise him [to me] as a husband . . . . Literally, he said, ‘Tell him I’m a really good husband.’ She looked at him, and he repeated himself. And she said, ‘Yeah, he’s a really good husband.’ It was being dragged out of her,” says D’Antonio. Then she repeated a story D’Antonio had already heard from Trump: Tom Cruise once called Donald to see if he could use the Wollman skating rink in Central Park (which Trump had renovated with much fanfare in 1986) during off-hours. Donald was very flattered that the actor had called him personally—but Melania pointed out, “Oh, but, Donald, you’re more famous than he is.” Trump seemed to feel that this story was “an example of their affection,” recalls D’Antonio. “Praising his fame, hyping his fame, was a wifely duty. The people in Trump’s orbit have all memorized the same stories. And they repeat them word for word.”
About six months after they married, she became pregnant with Barron—and things changed, according to one source. She was 35—“checkout time” for women, as Trump once told Howard Stern-and no longer the dewy fox he’d met seven years earlier. A visitor to one of Trump’s homes, late into Melania’s pregnancy, recalls him remarking that he agreed to the baby on the condition that Melania would get her body back. “She promised him that everything would go back to the way it was,” says this guest; it struck this person as a “contract.” And he was simply rude to her. “There was no ‘How do you feel?’ No opening of doors, making sure she didn’t fall. Just ‘You wanted to have a baby.’ ” (Grisham counters that Mr. Trump was “very warm and supportive throughout her pregnancy.”)
As Donald’s celebrity ballooned with The Apprentice, Melania was asked to tolerate even more. His public interchanges with Howard Stern, which provided a kind of Greek chorus to their relationship, went from lewdly objectifying to grotesque. He agreed with Stern that his daughter Ivanka was “a piece of ass.” He joked that if Melania were in a horrible, mangling car crash he’d still love her as long as the breasts remained intact. When asked by Stern whether he’d be up for “banging 24-year-olds,” Trump eagerly assented. Subsequent accusations suggest similar improprieties.
As People-magazine reporter Natasha Stoynoff wrote during the campaign, while she was on assignment in 2005 to interview the couple at Mar-a-Lago, Trump pushed her against a wall and jammed his tongue down her throat after Melania had left the room. Other women, including contestants in the Miss Universe and Miss USA pageants and Apprentice contestant Summer Zervos, claim to have had similar experiences after Trump had married Melania. Trump has dismissed them as liars, and Melania has repeated the assertion. But a source in Trump’s orbit says she was well aware of the man she married. According to her old friend Lisa Bytner, Melania’s attitude has always been “Live and let live.”
As the gorgeous wife of a Manhattan billionaire, Melania has had every opportunity to become a fixture on the gala-going benefit circuit. But that would presume an interest in social status or a cause. As Bytner recalls, “She was passionate about . . . Well, I can’t think what she was passionate about.” Her official White House biography has scant evidence of philanthropy, referring to single events she participated in as “Honorary Chairwoman” some 10 years ago, and the time in 2008 she rang the closing bell at NASDAQ for National Love Our Children Day. “The Trumps don’t comport themselves by the rules that are important to people, especially people on the Upper East Side,” says Wednesday Martin, author of a memoir called Primates of Park Avenue, which chronicles the ways of Manhattan’s rich and privileged. “They’ve rejected out of hand the established rites and rituals of philanthropy—which are to have a cause, have an event, buy a table and get your friends to, and then do the same for them.” New York society ladies paint a picture of a woman with an extraordinary interest in maintaining her beauty and in this she has succeeded wildly. Even among the devoted SoulCycle set, Melania makes everyone feel dowdy by comparison, says a woman in that circle.
Being a Trump, she experimented with creating a brand, with a Melania jewelry line on QVC. But the arrangement was short-lived. When asked about the partnership, QVC released a statement: “QVC has offered items from Melania Trump’s brand. At this time, QVC does not have an active relationship with the brand.” She moved on to a line of Melania skin care—creams and exfoliants laced with caviar. That business ended in a welter of lawsuits, with Melania suing her business partner for $50 million when the venture collapsed. (The suit was settled out of court.)
Left, Melania picks up her son, Barron, from school, in New York, in 2016; Right, in the White House before leaving for Mar-a-Lago on March 17.
One person who would fill the vacuum and give Melania’s life meaning is Barron, 11, who is by most accounts sweet and well behaved, a testament to Melania’s devotion as a mother. The two sometimes speak to each other in Slovenian, and until recently she consistently did drop-off and pick-up from Columbia Grammar and Preparatory. Once considered a laid-back option for mellow upper-middle-class families, Columbia Prep now nearly ranks among the top-tier schools in terms of competitive admission.
“Donations are assumed,” says a parent at the school, referring to sums in the five and six figures, in addition to the $47,000 annual tuition. “You want your kid here, that’s $100,000,” says an uptown parent. Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer, joined the school’s board around eight years ago, and Trump has donated at least $150,000 to the school. (The school declined to comment, and Cohen, who resigned from the board last year, responds, “To imply that a student was ever offered a seat based upon a donation is wholly inaccurate.”)
Columbia Prep has become a nexus for other key figures in the Trumps’ world, too. Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, the stepgranddaughter of jeweler Harry Winston and a close friend of Melania’s, has a daughter at the school. For more than 10 years, Wolkoff was a chief organizer of the Metropolitan Museum’s annual Met Gala, an event about which she has said, “No money, no come-y.” Cohen’s term on the board overlapped that of Caryn Zucker, the wife of Jeff Zucker, head of CNN, who helped catapult Trump to celebrity stardom with The Apprentice when Zucker was the president of NBC. The Zuckers have three kids at the school, and Caryn is said to be one of Melania’s friends. This trio—Cohen, Wolkoff, and Jeff Zucker—would all go on to play roles in the Trumps’ next chapter: presidential politics. Zucker led the way in giving Trump hours of unfiltered airtime during the campaign (but has since steered CNN to solid opposition ground). Wolkoff would be the First Lady’s first hire, as a senior adviser. Cohen became a rabid Trump surrogate. Threatening a reporter who asked him about Ivana Trump’s claim, later recanted, that Donald had raped her, Cohen said, “I will take you for every penny you still don’t have . . . . What I’m going to do to you is going to be fucking disgusting.” (Cohen later apologized for his “inarticulate comment.”) He is now reportedly under scrutiny in the Trump-Russia investigations but has denied any wrongdoing.
With Donald entering national politics, he would be asking even more of Melania. In the spring of 2011, he began to shore up his support from the far right for a potential presidential run, by casting doubt on President Obama’s citizenship. Melania agreed to be interviewed by talk-show host Joy Behar, to whom she repeated his birther claims almost verbatim: “Do you want to see President Obama’s birth certificate or not?,” Melania asked Behar. “In one way, it would be very easy if President Obama just show it. It’s not only Donald who wants to see it. It’s American people who voted for him and who didn’t voted for him—they want to see that!” (No matter that Obama had released his birth certificate in 2008, showing he was born in Hawaii.)
Trump decided not to run in 2012, saying he wasn’t ready to leave the private sector. Four years later, the time had come. Trump’s official story is that he consulted with his family about his decision to run, and they all agreed. A former campaign aide recalls a conversation in which Melania told this aide that she didn’t want Donald to run, because she was terrified he might win. According to another Trump insider, “She never wanted this, and never had any interest.” (Grisham maintains that “Mrs. Trump has always been supportive of all her husband’s endeavors.”) Tolerating his boorishness—that she could do. Repeating a couple of lame sound bites to Joy Behar—fine. But serious campaigning for one’s spouse required far more actual effort.
Melania seemed to do her best to ignore the new reality, on the grounds that she wanted to be home for Barron. Over the course of Trump’s 17-month campaign, she rarely joined her husband at rallies, and the speeches she gave could be counted on one hand. Compare that with Michelle Obama, who spoke all over the country on Barack’s behalf, though she too had young children. During the primaries, Donald made do by re-tweeting a picture of Melania next to an unflattering shot of Heidi Cruz, Ted’s wife, with the caption “The images are worth a thousand words.”
But then he clinched the nomination, and more Melania participation was required—which, alas, did not do her any favors. In February 2016, in an interview with MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski, Melania expounded on illegal immigration, using her personal story as an example of model behavior. “I followed the law . . . . And you should do that. You should not just say, O.K., let me stay here. And whatever happens happens.”
To some, this statement pointed up a lack of compassion toward a group she herself is part of. Her immigration attorney Michael Wildes, who worked for Trump Models and the Miss Universe pageant, denies that Melania’s stance toward fellow immigrants is unsympathetic, likening her to “the biblical Queen Esther” on this issue. When I pressed him to explain how, specifically, Melania has demonstrated concern for immigrants, he put me on hold for some time, and returned with what sounded like a carefully crafted non sequitur: “She’s extremely thoughtful and sincere about asking about family members who are not in her circle. She’s fully aware of your family.”
Then there was that speech she had to give at the Republican convention. According to a source with knowledge of events, Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, took control and hired two George W. Bush speechwriters, Matthew Scully and John McConnell, to write it. It was Kushner, not Melania, who provided them with the outlines of her story, and the touching personal anecdotes. The speechwriters assumed that eventually they’d get some input from Melania, but the call never came. After the speech sat around for a few weeks, Donald’s frequent ghostwriter, Meredith McIver, got her hands on it. The final draft of the speech was nothing like the one the speechwriters had turned in. The radical rewrite may not have been ordered by anyone in particular, says this source, but was perhaps the product of a campaign in disarray. Hours before her convention speech, Melania told the Today show’s Matt Lauer, “I wrote it, with as little help as possible.”
Later that night, after she delivered the speech, it was revealed that passages had been lifted from the convention speech Michelle Obama had given eight years earlier. All of a sudden, campaign spokesmen were blaming “Melania’s team of writers,” and insisting Melania had nothing to do with the “unfortunate oversight.” In the end, McIver took the fall, writing a public letter, apologizing to the Trumps and saying how honored she was to work for such great people. “It wasn’t Melania’s fault,” insists Zampolli. According to a campaign aide, “she was distraught” at the turn of events. She disappeared from view and holed up in Trump Tower.
It got worse. In October, the “grab them by the pussy” tape was leaked—Trump’s bragging to Billy Bush of Access Hollywood about touching women’s private parts, recorded during the first year of his marriage to Melania. Donald dismissed his words as “locker-room talk,” but then one woman after another came out of the woodwork to claim that these weren’t just words. But Donald boasted that he had never apologized to Melania, because there was nothing to apologize for. At campaign rallies, he made his case by saying that some of the accusers weren’t hot enough for him to hit on.
This was a five-alarm fire, and it seemed as though Melania, in spite of her previous missteps, was the only person who could put it out. On October 17, she went on CNN to defend her husband, dismissing his words as “boy talk” and blaming everyone else—Billy Bush, who had “egged him on,” NBC for releasing the tape, the “left-wing media” for reporting on it, and the accusers, whose accounts were “lies.” Trump’s defenders dug in. Zampolli, while acknowledging that the tape wasn’t pleasant to hear, waves it away. “Sometimes, [during] Girls Night Out, you guys make some comments about bodies like this.” Pignatelli agrees. “He adores women. And he respects women. When you adore your daughter, you respect women. And he adores Ivanka. Literally adores her. So when a man adores his daughter, he respects women.”
There were signs that the pressure was taking its toll on Melania. At Columbia Prep Parents Night, shortly after the recording was released, “she looked really thin, tired, and sad,” recalls a parent. “Nobody was talking to her. Nobody knew what to say.” But Election Day was right around the corner, and duty called. As a potential First Lady, Melania needed to come up with a “platform.” On November 3, she gave her first solo speech since the debacle at the Republican convention, and announced that she intended to fight . . . cyberbullying, a claim she made seemingly with no awareness that she was married to the worst cyberbully on the planet. Was she really that clueless?
Republican strategist Cheri Jacobus—whom Trump attacked on Twitter as “a real dummy” and a “major loser” after she criticized him on CNN—believes “it was the height of spoiled self-centeredness. Of a very privileged, wealthy woman looking only at herself, who clearly has no thoughts or care for the people her husband has damaged, ruined, and traumatized by his cyberbullying.” Again, Melania was pilloried by the media. On the plus side, the election was in five days, and the prospect of Trump winning was then estimated to be as little as 10 percent.
Tens of millions of Americans watched the election returns with disbelief. It’s likely that Melania, who watched with the family and allies at Trump Tower, was among them. Stylist Phillip Bloch, an acquaintance of Melania’s, who worked with Donald on his pageants, says, “I’ll tell you, that pantsuit didn’t look like she was going to a victory rally. That outfit was like, ‘I’m getting on the plane going to Palm Beach. This is over now. Thank God.’ ”
And yet, here was a chance—a golden opportunity for Melania to do something transformative for the world, or at least to serve as the compassionate partner, a kinder counterweight to a man whose lifeblood was to insult.
Donald and Melania at the Inaugural Luncheon, at the Capitol.
The tradition of First Lady is no lightweight anachronism. According to A. Scott Berg, Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Wilson, the best-selling 2013 biography of Woodrow Wilson, “President William Howard Taft called the White House ‘the loneliest place in the world.’ It has fallen upon 40 First Ladies of the United States before Melania to assuage that loneliness by offering a sympathetic ear and often the only advice their husbands could trust implicitly.” From Eleanor Roosevelt, who served as “her husband’s legs” as she toured coal mines and front lines, to Betty Ford, who bravely presented herself as a survivor of breast cancer, to Hillary Clinton, who led the charge on health-care reform, to Michelle Obama, who encouraged fitness through a national program of diet and exercise, the majority of modern First Ladies have played robust roles. “Even those First Ladies who evaded the spotlight—such as Bess Truman, Mamie Eisenhower, and Pat Nixon—graciously and publicly stood by their men,” Berg says.
But Melania has approached the job of First Lady hesitantly. According to a source close to the transition, the East Wing, where First Ladies have their offices, was practically a ghost town. “A First Lady comes in with seasoned partnerships,” said this source. “You come in with a staff, your people. They have no people. Look who was at Thanksgiving: Don King and Fabio.”
True, Melania’s first hire was her old friend Stephanie Wolkoff. Her next hires included people who weren’t obvious White House material: decorator Tham Kannalikham, who once worked for Ralph Lauren’s home-furnishings business, and, as social secretary, Anna Cristina Niceta Lloyd, whose previous job had been as an account executive at a catering company.
In April, Melania became somewhat more visible, standing by Trump’s side at Mar-a-Lago during the visit of Chinese president Xi Jinping and his wife, and visiting an all-girls charter school in Washington, D.C., with Queen Rania of Jordan.
But as this article was going to press, she hadn’t yet done anything about cyberbullying. Offers have been made to gather experts in the field to educate her. When asked what Melania intends to do with the issue, a source in frequent contact with the Trumps shrugs and says noncommittally, “I suspect she’ll do something.” (Grisham says the First Lady “continues to work on building her agenda in a thoughtful way . . . . She likes things to be done right, and doing things right takes time.”)
“The only action Melania Trump has taken in regard to cyberbullying is in regard to herself,” Cheri Jacobus told me. She may have a point. In February, Melania successfully settled with a blogger, for a “substantial sum,” according to her lawyer, for making the unsubstantiated claim that she’d been an escort. She filed a $150 million suit against the Web site of the Daily Mail for reporting the claim. The suit alleged that the defamatory statement destroyed her “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity” to make millions during this “multiyear term” in which she is “one of the most photographed women in the world.” Only after the media pointed out that the wording implied a blatant intention to profit from the presidency was that part taken out. (The tabloid and its Web site retracted the article, but the suit went ahead, ending in mid-April when the Daily Mail and MailOnline issued an official apology and paid damages reported to be around $3 million.)
With Melania often absent, Ivanka has gone a long way toward filling the role of First Lady, and has even moved into her own office in the West Wing of the White House. In the first months of the Trump presidency she, instead of Melania, met and socialized with a number of world leaders and C.E.O.’s. To be sure, Ivanka seems to have an intense personal will to power, but there is no doubt that stepping in for Melania has also been an obligation. Two sources in fashion and media have observed a frostiness between the two. (A source close to Ivanka said that their relationship is “fine.” Grisham says, “Ivanka and Mrs. Trump have always shared a close relationship, and that continues today.”)
New York’s chattering class has recently been abuzz with gossip that Melania was considering a divorce after the Access Hollywood tape came out. But Melania’s camp denies those rumors, and Zampolli says that during New Year’s Eve at Mar-a-Lago “it looked like they were on a first date. I don’t have that kind of romance with my wife.” Us Weekly has reported that the Trumps sleep in separate quarters, both in New York and at Mar-a-Lago. Grisham dismisses this as “fictional.” In any case, Zampolli explains that, for people like him and Donald, that’s no big deal. “I built a very big house,” he says, gesturing at his massive town house, “that goes to six floors . . . . [My wife] wants to live in her own spot, trust me. The house is 20,000 square feet, as you can see.”
Despite official statements that Melania will move to Washington at the end of the school year, at press time the Trumps had still not announced a D.C.-area school for Barron. According to a well-placed member of the Washington education community, they had not yet applied to some of the schools one might have imagined. A St. Albans parent notes, “There’s been no ‘Barron will be going to my school’ ” sort of dish one might expect. (Grisham says, “They are still looking at a few schools.”)
New Yorkers are paying dearly for Melania’s gilded boundaries. It’s costing the city about $1 million per week to protect her and Barron. The Columbia Prep community is struggling to deal with a situation it never bargained for. Pick-up has become a complicated ordeal, according to a parent. Choppers have hovered overhead. Recently, a suspicious truck was parked outside, causing the school to go on lockdown. The children were told to move away from the windows. “The parents are very unhappy,” says one, who believes no president should have a child at a New York City school. “We’re not geared for it. The kids feel the anxiety, too.” In addition, the public expression of political fervor has been discouraged, as the members of the community were asked to refrain from discussing the election on school grounds.
What will become of Melania and Donald? Perhaps some kind of feminist fantasy (involving Michelle Obama or not) will come to pass. To be sure, it would provide a gripping melodrama and an “I told you so” victory for those who were appalled by Donald’s misogynist outbursts revealed during the campaign. But shouldn’t we be entitled to more? As Berg says, “A nation now wonders what role, if any, the new First Lady might play in its life. So too, perhaps, does her husband.”
Correction: Primates of Park Avenue is a memoir, not a novel, as originally stated.
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Clinton and Obama Laid the Groundwork for #DonaldTrump’s War on Immigrants | The Nation
war 
obama
clinton
clinton
donald
trump
https://www.thenation.com/article/clinton-and-obama-laid-the-groundwork-for-donald-trumps-war-on-immigrants/
(AP Photo / Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
By Katrina vanden Heuvel
By Leighton Akio Woodhouse
By John Washington
President Obama and President-elect Trump shake hands following a meeting in the Oval Office on November 10, 2016. (AP Photo / Pablo Martinez Monsivais)
Ever since he rode a Trump Tower escalator into the presidential race in June 2015 and swore to build his “great wall” and stop Mexican “rapists” from entering the country, undocumented immigrants have been the focus of Donald Trump’s ire. Now that he’s in the Oval Office, the news has been grim. A drumbeat of frightening headlines and panicked social media posts have highlighted his incendiary language, his plans and executive orders when it comes to immigrants, and the early acts of the US Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement(ICE) agents when it comes to roundups and deportations. The temperature has soared on the deportation debate, so if you think we’re in a completely unprecedented moment when it comes to immigration and immigrants, you’re in good company.1
This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To stay on top of important articles like these, sign up to receive the latest updates from TomDispatch.com.
Trump has repeatedly claimed that immigrants, especially undocumented ones, are flooding the United States, causing crime waves, and depleting social-service budgets. Never mind that the number of such immigrants has been in steady decline since 2008, that immigrant crime rates are lower than citizen crime rates, that the undocumented have no access to most social-welfare programs, and that crime figures, too, have generally been on the decline in recent years.2
The media has played its own role in fanning the flames. Since Donald Trump entered the Oval Office, news reports have proliferated about rising raids, arrests, detentions, and deportations. These suggest that something new, terrifying, and distinctly Trumpian—something we’ve simply never seen before—is underway, including mass sweeps to deport individuals who would have been protected under the previous administration.3
The numbers tell a different story. A Washington Post scare headline typically read: “ICE Immigration Arrests of Noncriminals Double Under Trump.” While accurate, it was nonetheless misleading. Non-criminal immigration arrests did indeed jump from 2,500 in the first three months of 2016 to 5,500 during the same period in 2017, while criminal arrests also rose, bringing the total to 21,000. Only 16,000 were arrested during the same months in 2016. The article, however, ignored the fact that 2016 was the all-time-low year for arrests under President Obama. In the first three months of 2014, for example, 29,000 were arrested, far more than Trump’s three month “record.”4
And even though arrests went up during Trump’s first three months in office, deportations actually went down, mostly due to the fact that the number of immigrants crossing the border declined.5
Why Was Heath Mello Thrown Under the Bus?
How the Government Works Under Trump
Donald Trump Is the President Our Military Leaders Always Dreamed About
The Unity Tour Was Kind of a Mess—and That’s OK
Ella Fitzgerald at 100
To those who have been following deportation politics in this country, Trump’s policies, as they are now unfolding, have an eerie resonance. They seem to be growing directly out of policies first instituted in the presidencies of Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. True, President Obama liked to talk about “our tradition of welcoming immigrants,” while our new president has tossed such liberal humanitarian rhetoric in the garbage can, instead playing up a harsh nativism. Still, the fact is that two Democratic presidents laid the groundwork for Trump’s developing policies.6
It was, after all, President Clinton who oversaw the draconian Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Actof 1996. It drastically increased all levels of immigration “enforcement,” enlarging the Border Patrol, criminalizing numerous types of low-level immigration violations, and facilitating and expanding deportation procedures. (A similar emphasis on casting blame on individuals for structural and systemic problems was also at the heart of Clinton’s welfare reform of that same year.)7
In many ways, Donald Trump is only reiterating, with more bombast, ideas and policies pioneered under Clinton, that then became a basic part of Barack Obama’s approach to immigration. Those policies drew directly on racist “tough on crime” and antiterrorism police tactics that also helped foment white racial fears.8
Anecdotally speaking, there have already been numerous cases of detention and deportation that appear to go far beyond what was occurring in the Obama years. But a closer look at those cases and at the numbers suggests surprisingly more continuity than change. Both the mainstream media and social media have highlighted what appear to be extreme cases of the arrest of DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) youth, also known as “Dreamers,” as well as of individuals appearing for routine check-ins with ICE agents, or other arbitrary detentions and deportations. Most of these cases, however, have been far more in line with Obama-era policies than readers of such news might imagine. Then, too, “low-priority immigrants” were swept up surprisingly often in what The New York Times in 2014 called “the net of deportation.”9
At first glance, President Obama’s legacy on immigration enforcement appears contradictory indeed. He claimed to be a humanitarian who sought to deport only “felons, not families,” while granting relief from deportation to hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants. At the same time, he was dubbed the “deporter in chief” for a reason: He oversaw historic rises in deportation rates.10
To grasp the contradictory nature of his policies, it’s necessary to explore three geographically different policy realms when it comes to the undocumented: interior enforcement, border enforcement, and the Mexican Southern Border Program. In the area of interior enforcement, Obama created several protection and priority programs for undocumented immigrants already in the country that did indeed shield whole groups of people from deportation. Immigrant-rights supporters who emphasize the humanitarian nature of what Obama did focus on such protections, while downplaying the two border prongs of his policies. Yet, though not much attended to, even the humanitarian programs incorporated a darker side, criminalizing and targeting those not eligible for them.11
When it came to interior enforcement, President Obama called on ICE to exercise “prosecutorial discretion.” Immigrants who were parents, students, hardworking, had close family and community ties, or served in the military, he suggested, should be granted relief from deportation.12
In the process, however, he offered a language of innocence versus criminality and the illusion that, when it came to immigrants, the notion of criminality was self-evident and universally agreed upon. By dividing them into felons versus families, he actually contributed to the criminalization of large groups of immigrants and so fed directly into Trump’s future rhetoric. He also drew on Bill Clinton’s “tough on crime” policies in ways that linked the criminalization of people of color with the deportation of “criminal” immigrants (also overwhelmingly people of color).13
As immigration scholars Alan Aja and Alejandra Marchevsky explain:14
The criminalization of immigrants in part resulted from more aggressive policing of communities of color. In the 1980s and ’90s, law enforcement agencies across the nation implemented broken windows and stop-and-frisk strategies, claiming that mass arrests for low-level offenses would prevent more serious crime. As the immigrants who lived in these communities fell victim to racialized policing and mass incarceration, the federal government’s rosters of the criminal immigrant exploded.15
Once criminalized, they then fell into a separate-and-unequal immigration enforcement system in which due process was eliminated and deportation, the ultimate draconian penalty, could be implemented regardless of the seriousness of the “crime.” Worse yet, the ever harsher over-policing of communities of color and the expansion of mass incarceration produced “a reservoir of immigrants with criminal records, creating an endless chain of detentions and deportations,” Aja and Marchevsky point out.16
As Michelle Alexander, author of The New Jim Crow, has made strikingly clear, all of this—the redefinition of minor crimes as felonies, the increased pressure on those charged to plea bargain, and measures that then excluded felons from public housing, employment, welfare rolls, voting booths, and other aspects of society—relegated a significant number of black men to a permanent underclass. Undocumented immigrants were also caught in this web, with some special twists.17
In the wake of Clinton’s 1996 immigration law, for instance, convictions of just about any sort, including the most minor crimes, became grounds for deportation—even retroactively. So a long-ago violation that resulted in probation and community service, or a small fine, now became evidence of an immigrant’s “criminal” status, from which deportation naturally followed.18
And there was another new catch-22 category as well: so-called immigration crimes. Those with a record of illegal reentry and those who engaged in what was termed “immigration fraud” were automatically recategorized as “criminals” under President Obama’s priority-enforcement policy. “Illegal reentry” is, in fact, the most curious of crimes, since it distinguishes between those who succeed in entering the country without inspection on their first try and those who are caught and only succeed on a subsequent try. “Immigration fraud,” a broad category, includes common practices like using a false Social Security number in order to work.19
Obama’s interior-deportation scheme relied heavily on this expansive notion of the criminality of the undocumented, who might otherwise have qualified as people trying to get by as best they could. Now, President Trump is extending that criminalization further by ruling that anybody convicted of, charged with, or even suspected of a crime constitutes a priority for deportation. In the process, he’s expanded the concept of the “criminal” even as he’s built directly on the Clinton-Obama legacy.20
What earned President Obama the moniker of “deporter in chief,” however, was his policy toward border enforcement, since it was there that the number of deportees rose most sharply. This was in part because he prioritized “recent border crossers” for deportation; everyone, that is, who had crossed without authorization, which essentially meant everyone apprehended in the border region was now criminalized. Under previous administrations, most of those caught there had been granted what was called “voluntary departure.” In other words, they were returned to the Mexican side of the border without legal sanction. During the Clinton and Bush administrations, more than a million people a year were returned to Mexico in this manner without being transformed into criminals and so were not included in the usual deportation figures.21
In the Obama years, those apprehended at the border began to be formally charged and fingerprinted before being issued a deportation order. In this way, they were redefined as “criminals,” and if they were caught attempting a second border crossing, as criminal “repeat immigration offenders.” It also meant that formal deportations began to skyrocket, although the numbers crossing the border, those apprehended at the border, and those sent back to Mexico were all beginning to fall.22
Soon enough, immigration crimes came to rival drug crimes in the federal-court system. Obama became the deporter in chief not because he deported more people than previous administrations, but because he criminalized more of those he deported. This, then, was how he managed to protect many from deportation, while also racking up deportation statistics far beyond those of his predecessors. In fact, the situations of many of those caught at the border proved remarkably similar to those being granted prosecutorial discretion in the interior. They had family, including children, in the United States, or jobs and strong community ties, or had lived in the country for years. Because they had left and tried to return, however, they were redefined as criminals.23
Finally, one aspect of immigration enforcement under the Obama administration generally goes unmentioned: the president’s role in pressuring Mexico into collaborating by arresting and deporting Central Americans heading north (including families and unaccompanied children) before they reached the border with the United States. In 2014, under growing pressure from Washington, the Mexican government implemented the Southern Border Program. While US law was being repeatedly updated to provide humanitarian treatment to families and children apprehended at the border, when the Mexicans got to them first, they simply deported them.24
In 2014, only 3percent of the minors apprehended in the US were deported; in Mexico, the figure was 77percent, or 18,269. As one report summed up the situation: “The United States is outsourcing its border enforcement to Mexico.” As in the United States, so Mexico’s increasing militarization and repression on its southern border did not actually slow the flow of migrants. It merely made the voyage far more dangerous, while giving ever more power to smugglers and gangs that now prey upon Central American migrants desperate to evade Mexican border controls.25
Long before Donald Trump entered the Oval Office, this “tough on crime” approach to immigration fit into a broader pattern of the criminalization of people of color that fed the prison-industrial complex, made the US the globe’s leading incarcerator, and encouraged the proliferation of private prisons. It helped justify the increasing militarization of the police in those years and the over-policing of communities of color. It also fed a national sense of insecurity that contributed to political passivity, disempowerment, and the kind of nativism that Trump has thrived on.26
Criminalization plays a role as well in the country’s growing economic inequality. It justifies both high rates of unemployment and low wages among people of color, while warehousing those whose labor has become superfluous. And it plays a particular role when it comes to immigrants and the labor market.27
Immigrants actually experience significantly higher labor-force participation and lower unemployment rates than the native-born, making them an exception among people of color. However, they earn less ($681 per week) than do native-born workers ($837 a week), according to Bureau of Labor Statistics figures for 2015. For employers in recent years, the criminalization of the already unstable status of immigrants (and their inability generally to access social services) makes them a uniquely exploitable and so desirable work force. They tend to be hired to do jobs so dismal, arduous, or dangerous that they fail to attract native-born workers. Anthropologist Nicholas de Genova has suggested that the very “deportability” of undocumented immigrants makes them desirable to such employers.28
Meanwhile, the criminalization of people of color and of immigrants in particular lent a distinct helping hand to Donald Trump in his campaign for president, even as it helped the prison-industrial complex and the police justify ever increasing budgets and employment.29
The Trump administration’s multipronged approach to immigration relies on and promotes the criminalization of immigrants. Whether halting the entry of refugees or persons with visas from particular countries, hiring thousands of new ICE and Border Patrol agents, promising to build a “great, great wall,” denying federal money to sanctuary cities, or publishing lists of crimes committed by immigrants, Trump’s immigration policies follow in the footsteps but also intensify those of his predecessors, and continue to create fear, justify exploitation, and rationalize authoritarianism.30
Aviva Chomsky  Aviva Chomskyis professor of history and coordinator of Latin American studies at Salem State University in Massachusetts. Her most recent book isUndocumented: How Immigration Became Illegal(Beacon Press, 2014).
To submit a correction for our consideration, click here.
For Reprints and Permissions, click here.
In order to comment, you must be logged in as a paid subscriber.  Click here to log in or subscribe.
I read this article as a reminder that when we fight Trump's immigration policies, we cannot assume that Democrats are nexessarily any better than Trump. Instead, we have to look at Democrats' actual policies and call them on policies that contribute to the problems--like the policies of Clinton and Obama. Those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it.
I read the article a bit differently from some of the critics who have commented here. Of course, Obama and Clinton have to bear their shares of blame. But Trump is president now, and it his actions, policies and neanderthal views we have to fight now not some old wars.
This article is a good example of why working class voters might vote for, say, Trump. Trump got just under 25% of the Latino vote. Wonder why?...look to why Cesar Chavez was opposed to illegal immigration; it depresses the wages and bargaining power of people at the low end of the skill spectrum. Obama's stance, with some tweaks, is probably the right one politically. Enforce the laws with some compassion and push for comprehensive reform. That reform doesn't need a wall...what it needs is a real system of verifiable ID (e-verify as currently configured isn't it). People with job/wage anxiety will vote against people that they feel do not care about the competition they face from the undocumented. If progressives want to win elections, they had better learn to thread that needle.
Chas, So we just shut out our part in the instability causing the migration? The Drug War? Hill's backing of the members of the 2009 Honduran Coup? US agribusiness disrupting native corn growing in Mexico? Tortilla riots? US paid Israeli mercenaries liquidating Mayans in the early Ninety's? Climate change ending ages old cultivation in Central America. Contras? El Salvador?
Well, yes, helping people in Central America is a good idea and one that we should pursue, but open borders are not a good solution for the man or woman who swings a hammer for a living and worries about non-union, undocumented labor working cheap or off the books. If you want the progressive politicians elected who would address climate change and other issues, it might be a good idea to address the economic anxieties of the working class (and it's not just the White working class with these concerns).
I may have missed it, but I see nothing here about George W. Bush. It's like he was never President.
How shocking, Jeff. How could she question "our inspirational leader.."?
The article makes a good point. I remember when some of my Mexican students were deported under Clinton, though they were allowed to come back and finish high-school. One was from a family of nine children in which only the mother was not born in the U.S. and he was later given orthodontic care pro bono. Obviously, we have to be careful who enters the United States. This article needs to be read with care, and not just its headline and summary. The last paragraph is important. Dismissing period style, I suggest reading it first.
N.B. I mean "pyramid" style, a newspaper term. Don't know what happened here.
Chomsky provides an interesting catalog of steps taken by Clinton, Obama and Trump aimed at preventing illegal immigration. And she seems to disapprove of each and every one. I would be interested to see what measures she favors to stop aliens from illegally entering and staying in the United States. Are there ANY such measures? Or does Chomsky believe that our immigration policies should be set not by US citizens but by the tens of millions of foreigners who want to come here?
Gould, both you &amp; Nir rationalizing because you have little positive to say about "our inspirational leader". My idea of a good leader would have supported Angela Merkel and, while explaining to our public our nation's involvement in the writing of the Geneva Convention and our responsibility to honor its tenets, announced that the US would take in 250,000 Syrian &amp; Iraqi refugees promptly. Not only did he outdo Dubya with deportations, he kicked butt with arms sales. Under his watch, the US became the world's foremost exporter of fossil fuels in 2013. Ugly Fact, when you understand climate change was a big factor for the start Syria's civil war (most likely facilitated by our noble British Brethren..). Tell me, Gould, just where did you stand on Regime Change for Iraq?
My Bad.. Had Obama respected international convention and taken a quarter-million in, the Right would have taken advantage by electing some ignorant creep for president...
But not Bush (The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007) or Reagan (Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986)? Also, none of the four had pivoted their presidency on the immigration issue, while Trump's opening shot of his campaign was his idiocies about Mexican immigration, and one of his first signed (and illegal) executive orders was the Muslim ban.
“There are few places where one can still read courageous journalism. The Nation is one." —Alec Baldwin
Stay connected with everything Nation by signing up for our free daily newsletter.
Copyright (c) 2017 The Nation Company LLC
Why Is #Trump Risking a Trade War With Canada? - The Atlantic
Canada
war 
canada
trump
https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2017/04/why-is-trump-starting-a-trade-war-with-canada/524265/
ou were going
As Christmas approached
Skip to article in
The president has softened some of his tough talk toward China and Mexico, transferring it to Canada and disputes over softwood lumber and dairy products.
Donald Trump is not the first U.S. president to tangle with Canada over lumber. In fact, the first U.S. president to do so was the first U.S. president. George Washington’s administration saw a dispute over ownership of valuable forests on the border between New Brunswick and present-day Maine.
So despite Trump’s recent tough talk about the trade relationship with America’s neighbor to the north, his announcement Tuesday morning of new tariffs on Canadian lumber is actually consistent with what U.S. policy has been for decades. Where Trump differs from previous presidents, though, is in very publicly sounding off about a longstanding disagreement. In so doing he has also, apparently, found a new target for his trade-related ire, even as he softens his stances toward previous targets like China and Mexico.
“We’re going to be putting a 20 percent tax on softwood lumber coming in—tariff on softwood coming into the United States from Canada,” Trump said Tuesday morning. Actually, the Commerce Department is levying tariffs on a range of Canadian lumber companies, with the average coming to around 20 percent.
It’s not just wood that’s at issue. Tuesday morning, Trump tweeted:
Canada has made business for our dairy farmers in Wisconsin and other border states very difficult. We will not stand for this. Watch!
He’d previously complained about the dairy issue during an appearance in Wisconsin. Also Tuesday, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross issued a statement attacking Canada:
It has been a bad week for U.S.-Canada trade relations. Last Monday, it became apparent that Canada intends to effectively cut off the last dairy products being exported from the United States. Today, in a different matter, the Department of Commerce determined a need to impose countervailing duties of roughly one billion dollars on Canadian softwood lumber exports to us. This is not our idea of a properly functioning Free Trade Agreement.
Both the lumber and dairy issues are enduring matters of dispute between the U.S. and Canada, though for slightly different reasons.
The Canadian lumber industry functions differently from that of the United States. In the U.S., most logging is done by private companies on privately owned land. The Canadian timber industry operates largely on public lands, with companies paying a fee to harvest. U.S. logging companies charge that this constitutes an unfair government subsidy, allowing Canadian producers to flood the American market with cheaply produced softwood (from fir, spruce, pine, and other coniferous trees).
Every few years this dispute flares up, and then the Canadian and U.S. governments reach an agreement—often under pressure from American builders, who are upset about paying higher costs for wood—that sets some sort of quota on imports to the U.S. to appease all parties. The latest agreement, signed in 2006, expired in 2015, leading inexorably to Tuesday’s declaration. Bloomberg reported that some Canadian lumber officials, while disputing the U.S. charges, actually viewed the tariffs as less onerous than might have been expected.
“This is so predictable,” says Laura Dawson, director of the Canada Institute at the Wilson Center. “It’s like the Mayan calendar: 100 years of good harvest and then 10 years of chaos and darkness.”
The dairy dispute, meanwhile, centers on Canada’s staunchly protectionist approach to the industry. The Canadian dairy industry is largely quarantined—neither exporting nor importing milk products. In recent years, American producers found a loophole allowing them to export to Canada new products not covered by existing rules, but Canada has now moved to close that off. Canada’s reason is simple enough: It’s politically popular to support Canadian dairy farmers. The reason Trump is complaining is that it’s also politically popular to support American dairy farmers. (This is true across party lines: Democratic Senate Leader Chuck Schumer is praising Trump on the milk issue; then-President Obama privately pressed Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on the same matter when he was in office.)
These long-running irritants in the U.S.-Canadian trade relationship have not typically gotten in the way of broader trade between the two countries: Canada is the largest importer of American goods, and it’s the fourth-largest source of imports to the United States. But because of the disagreements over dairy and lumber, they are excluded from NAFTA, which eliminates trade barriers between the U.S., Canada, and Mexico on most products.
Historically, the U.S. and Canada have worked their way through disputes over the two products. But the question is whether Trump, having followed past administrations’ lead on adding tariffs, will also follow them on breaking the impasse. If the Canadians hoped that Donald Trump, with his past as a builder, would be more likely to offer a good deal on softwood lumber than the Obama administration, they may be sorely disappointed now.
Trump has sent mixed messages about U.S. trade over its northern border in general. “People don’t realize Canada’s been very rough on the United States,” he said Tuesday. “Everyone thinks of Canada being wonderful and civil. I love Canada. But they’ve outsmarted our politicians for many years, and you people understand that.” But Trump seemed to get along well with Trudeau when the two met in February, and he was very eager to restart construction on the Keystone XL pipeline, a major Canadian priority Obama had tried to kill. (Trump and Trudeau spoke on Tuesday, though a White House readout shed little light on the call, except that they discussed wood and dairy and that “it was a very amicable call.”)
“You’re trying to find a pattern, and it’s really difficult to say whether we should expect that there would be a pattern in the way that this White House behaves in its foreign relations,” Dawson said. “I think it’s going to go more or less the way it has gone in previous negotiations. The things that are more worrying here are the leakage between the issues that are known to be systemic irritants and the broader trading relationship. We all know that we’re not going to get along on softwood, but that’s not a reason to blow up the NAFTA.”
Whether the Trump administration will feel the same way remains to be seen. It has been slow to begin formal renegotiation of NAFTA—a process about which Canada has been outwardly supportive—but says it remains committed to the process. The U.S. is effectively asking Canada to hobble its dairy and timber industries, but it’s unlikely Trump would make any concessions on Canadian priorities, like dropping “buy American” provisions and opening up labor markets to Canadian workers. A drawn-out trade war between Canada and the U.S. would harm U.S. exporters and increase some prices for American consumers, but it would likely hurt Canada more, since trade with the U.S. represents a larger percentage of Canadian GDP than trade with Canada represents for the U.S.
But Canada is aware of this and has begun trying to diversify, as a government Twitter account pointedly noted Tuesday:
Asia is a growing market for Canadian #softwoodlumber: pic.twitter.com/jmpNU2bplR
Canada is now pursuing closer trade relationships with China and other Asian markets. Ironically, the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiated under Obama would have opened up the Canadian dairy market to American exports, but Trump withdrew the U.S. from that agreement.
Although the lumber and dairy disputes are not new, Trump’s very public excoriation of Ottawa is unusual. It’s especially remarkable because his attacks on the closest American trade partner come as he has softened his line on two of the countries he has most aggressively criticized in the past. During the presidential campaign, he accused Mexican and Chinese leaders of outsmarting the U.S. in negotiation, and vowed to take a tougher line with them. Instead, he has blinked on demanding funding for his border wall and softened his language toward China, recognizing both that Beijing has not devalued its currency for years and that he needs Chinese assistance to contain North Korea.
Meanwhile he has transferred his complaints about those countries over to Canada, right down to the “outsmarted” terminology. The current approach is a nearly perfect embodiment of the old maxim that one should keep one’s friends close and one’s enemies closer—give or take the closeness with friends.
A botanical explorer collects seeds from plants threatened by mechanized agribusiness.
Activists threatened to drag local Republicans off a parade route if they weren’t excluded from a local celebration. Organizers cancelled the entire event in response.
On the day after Donald Trump was inaugurated, perhaps 3 million Americans took to the streets in peaceful protest to register their opposition. When news of his travel ban broke, I stood at LAX watching Angelenos sing the Star Spangled Banner and Amazing Grace. Across the nation, peaceful protest against President Trump continues. But a violent fringe has been using Trump’s rise as a justification for political violence, as if his authoritarian impulses justify authoritarianism from his opponents.
This tiny faction knows that most of their compatriots on the left are committed to nonviolence, so they frame their aggressive actions as a narrow exception to the rule.
Most famously, they insisted that it was okay, or even righteous, to punch white supremacist Richard Spencer because he was “a Nazi.” That position impels the debate down a slippery slope. And now, activists in Oregon caused the cancellation of the 82nd Avenue of Roses Parade, a community event in the southeast quadrant of Portland, by threatening to forcibly drag “fascists” off the parade route if they weren’t excluded.
What’s the most efficient path to kitchen wisdom?
It’s a shame that the standard way of learning how to cook is by following recipes. To be sure, they are a wonderfully effective way to approximate a dish as it appeared in a test kitchen, at a star chef’s restaurant, or on TV. And they can be an excellent inspiration for even the least ambitious home cooks to liven up a weeknight dinner. But recipes, for all their precision and completeness, are poor teachers. They tell you what to do, but they rarely tell you why to do it.
This means that for most novice cooks, kitchen wisdom—a unified understanding of how cooking works, as distinct from the notes grandma lovingly scrawled on index-card recipes passed down through the generations—comes piecemeal. Take, for instance, the basic skill of thickening a sauce. Maybe one recipe for marinara advises reserving some of the starchy pasta water, for adding later in case the sauce is looking a little thin. Another might recommend rescuing a too-watery sauce with some flour, and still another might suggest a handful of parmesan. Any one of these recipes offers a fix under specific conditions, but after cooking through enough of them, those isolated recommendations can congeal into a realization: There are many clever ways to thicken a sauce, and picking an appropriate one depends on whether there’s some leeway for the flavor to change and how much time there is until dinner needs to be on the table.
The most comprehensive review of evidence on health consequences of caffeine use has just been published.
That’s what a Los Angeles news anchor said earlier this month, in response to the announcement that “the world’s strongest coffee” is now available in the United States. The product is called Black Insomnia, a playful nod to a potentially debilitating medical condition that can be caused by the product.
The anchor’s tone took a dramatic decrescendo as she read from the teleprompter: “The site Caffeine Informer says Black Insomnia is one of the ‘most dangerous caffeinated products.’” Her smile faded. “Oh. I’ll have to have this one sparingly.”
Black Insomnia is actually in competition for the title of “world’s strongest coffee.” Another, similar purveyor sells coffee grounds called Death Wish. They come in a black sack with a skull and cross bones. On its Amazon page, Death Wish claims to be “the world’s strongest coffee” and promises its “perfect dark roast will make you the hero of the house or office.”
Who wins (the rich), who loses (anybody who doesn’t like deficits), and why it might take a miracle for the plan to become a law
There are two compelling narratives around President Donald Trump’s first 100 days. The first is his transformation from heterodox populist to orthodox Republican. Although he ran as a mold-breaking renegade, his economic policies come straight out of the conservative mold, from cutting business regulations to backing off threats to label China a currency manipulator and supporting plans to reduce health-insurance coverage for the poor.
The second story is that Trump has been more focused on optimizing for his own income and branding than for political victories. He has visited no foreign leaders, passed no major laws, given no major political addresses, and disappeared as the GOP effort to repeal Obamacare failed, all while doing little to refute accusations that he’s using the office to raise membership revenue at Mar-a-Lago and mixing business and politics in ways that are unprecedented for a sitting president.
The nationalists in Donald Trump's White House appear to have come very close to persuading the president to sign an executive order withdrawing from the North American Free Trade Agreement.
A proposed draft executive order that would pull the United States out of the North American Free Trade Agreement set off the latest round in a now-familiar series in Trump’s White House: The friction of Donald Trump’s nationalist campaign promises against the reality of governance, and the tension between moderating forces within the White House and more aggressive ideological purists.
The draft of the executive order, its existence first reported by Politico, is “in advanced stages of the process,” a senior White House official told me on Wednesday afternoon. But on Wednesday evening, the White House released a readout of a call between President Trump, President Pena Nieto of Mexico, and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada, saying that Trump had “agreed not to terminate NAFTA at this time.” It quoted Trump as saying: “It is my privilege to bring NAFTA up to date at this time,” and said the three leaders had agreed to embark on renegotiation of the deal.
“Somewhere at Google there is a database containing 25 million books and nobody is allowed to read them.”
You were going to get one-click access to the full text of nearly every book that’s ever been published. Books still in print you’d have to pay for, but everything else—a collection slated to grow larger than the holdings at the Library of Congress, Harvard, the University of Michigan, at any of the great national libraries of Europe—would have been available for free at terminals that were going to be placed in every local library that wanted one.
At the terminal you were going to be able to search tens of millions of books and read every page of any book you found. You’d be able to highlight passages and make annotations and share them; for the first time, you’d be able to pinpoint an idea somewhere inside the vastness of the printed record, and send somebody straight to it with a link. Books would become as instantly available, searchable, copy-pasteable—as alive in the digital world—as web pages.
Kim Jong Un’s nuclear and missile programs represent one of the most dangerous challenges since the end of the Cold War. But there are opportunities to stop it.
The drama that is playing out now over North Korea’s nuclear and missile program—accentuated Tuesday by that regime’s large-scale artillery drill—represents one of the most dangerous challenges for U.S. national security since the end of the Cold War. It is a crisis that has been building for a long time, as North Korea has broken through the nuclear barrier and possesses fissile material sufficient for 20 to 25 nuclear weapons, by one estimate. After many failed attempts, through pressure and negotiations, to bring an end to North Korea’s nuclear program, three new elements have heightened the urgency of the situation.
First, North Korea is racing to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of hitting the continental United States. In his annual New Years address in January, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un declared his country to be “in the final stage of preparation for the test launch” of such a missile. Moreover, experts warn, North Korea could at some point in the next few year years make the terrifying technological leap to a hydrogen bomb, which could be up to 1,000 times more destructive than the nuclear weapons that now comprise the North Korean arsenal.
Will you pay more for those shoes before 7 p.m.? Would the price tag be different if you lived in the suburbs? Standard prices and simple discounts are giving way to far more exotic strategies, designed to extract every last dollar from the consumer.
As Christmas approached in 2015, the price of pumpkin-pie spice went wild. It didn’t soar, as an economics textbook might suggest. Nor did it crash. It just started vibrating between two quantum states. Amazon’s price for a one-ounce jar was either $4.49 or $8.99, depending on when you looked. Nearly a year later, as Thanksgiving 2016 approached, the price again began whipsawing between two different points, this time $3.36 and $4.69.
We live in the age of the variable airfare, the surge-priced ride, the pay-what-you-want Radiohead album, and other novel price developments. But what was this? Some weird computer glitch? More like a deliberate glitch, it seems. “It’s most likely a strategy to get more data and test the right price,” Guru Hariharan explained, after I had sketched the pattern on a whiteboard.
The semiaquatic mammal leverages its own buoyancy and bone density to charge through the water.
People are talking about hippos this week, at least in part because the Cincinnati Zoo’s beloved baby hippopotamus, Fiona, is now three months old—a milestone that seemed uncertain when she was born prematurely in January.
Fiona’s doing great—so great that she’s “a little bit dangerous to actually cuddle and snuggle” anymore, the zookeeper Jenna Wingate told local reporters.
Which reminds me that wee Fiona will eventually, if she continues to thrive, turn into a grown-up hippo. And grown-up hippos are not—I repeat, not—to be trifled with. Consider, for example, this video, which my colleague Ed Yong shared with me yesterday:
Look at that hippopotamus go! After sharing this video on Twitter, I got several perplexing responses. Comments like this: “Not bad for an animal that doesn’t swim,” and “And … they can’t even swim!” There is even, someone told me, a children’s book about this: Hippos Can't Swim: And Other Fun Facts. As a long-time skeptic of “fun facts,” I obviously had to know more.
The legal procedure for an “Amerexit” isn’t as straightforward as Brexit.
President Trump is reportedly mulling an executive order to withdraw the United States from the North American Free Trade Agreement, a major trade deal with Canada and Mexico that reshaped broad sections of the U.S. economy after going into effect in 1994. But it might not be as easy to get out of NAFTA as Trump may think.
The president’s aversion toward multilateral trade agreements placed him in a similar ideological camp as pro-Brexit voters in Britain, who narrowly won a referendum last year to withdraw their country from the European Union. Trump celebrated the result at the time and claimed he successfully predicted it, even referring to himself as “Mr. Brexit.” For him and his supporters, the surprise result across the Atlantic showed their upset victory could also be possible. It additionally demonstrated a broader populist backlash against establishment institutions.
A haunting documentary about a West Virginia town plagued by painkiller addiction
The former president explains what it’s like to be both a person and a symbol.
In a short film, a husband ends up in a legal battle over his wife’s final wishes to be buried in the front yard.
Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.
Copyright © 2017 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
The Inside Story of the Kushner-Bannon Civil #War | Vanity Fair
war 
http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2017/04/jared-kushner-steve-bannon-white-house-civil-war
From the Magazine
West Wing sources come clean about the backstabbing, the bullying, the distrust, and the buzzing flies.
TOO CLOSE FOR COMFORT If walls could talk, the saying goes—but given the leaks from Donald Trump’s White House, they hardly need to.
“Anyone who works for [Trump] and becomes victim to unfounded hubris will quickly be taken down to size.”
Donald Trump Versus the Wind
The Battle for Breitbart After Bannon
Is Kellyanne Conway Getting Edged Out of the White House?
Inside the Trump Marriage: Melania’s Burden
Silicon Valley Murder Mystery: How Drugs and Paranoia Doomed Silk Road
Donald Trump Stands to Make Millions Off His Own Tax Plan
Around the Web
The West Wing of the White House is a cramped collection of tiny offices, some of them windowless, linked by narrow hallways. New inhabitants are sometimes surprised at just how small the physical quarters are. The current configuration results from a Depression-era renovation designed to increase the workspace of the president’s staff without expanding the physical footprint of the building. Parts of the West Wing can feel grungy and old, and look as if they have been repainted far too often. Many of the offices contain mousetraps to fight the inevitable infestation. Because the windows don’t open, for security reasons, large flies buzz near the ceilings. The relentless pressures and close quarters mean that someone in the West Wing always seems to be sick.
You’ll hear White House veterans say that working in the West Wing is like being on a submarine, sealed off from the rest of the world. “You are right on top of each other and you see each other all the time,” recalled one West Wing veteran. “The day-to-day volume of stuff that comes your way in the White House is overwhelming, especially to a new group.” What sustains you, this person went on, are the stated principles of the president and the dedication of the people working with him to pursue that vision. Ken Duberstein, a White House chief of staff to Ronald Reagan, told me, “There’s only one agenda in any White House, and it’s the president’s.”
But now, in full view of the country and the world, we are watching what happens when a president is elected on the basis of an incoherent and crowd-sourced agenda, one that pandered to white nationalists and stoked economic anxiety. When that same president is someone who has never managed a large bureaucracy and brings almost no close associates who have. And when some of the aides he haphazardly acquired a few months before taking office care more about their own ambitions than his own—whatever they are.
Now combine all that with the inevitable transition from a helter-skelter campaign metabolism to the grinding process of governance. What is happening inside the White House, according to a senior official who is close to the president, is a “reversion to the mean”—a correction of sorts. “When narrative gets bigger than the reality”—for an individual, for a campaign, for an administration—“there is nowhere to go but down.” Two years ago, when Donald J. Trump descended the escalator in Trump Tower with his wife, Melania, on announcement day, the entire campaign consisted of three people: Corey Lewandowski, the campaign manager; Hope Hicks, the press secretary; and Trump himself, the candidate. The campaign evolved multiple times after that. “We are in a position now where things are in evolution again,” this senior official told me. “We keep adjusting for what is now.”
When Donald Trump moved into the Oval Office, he redecorated decisively, replacing his predecessor’s maroon drapes with heavy gold ones. He also brought with him a collection of advisers who, according to another senior administration official, not only have “breathtaking personal agendas” and are willing to “malign the people around him” but are also prepared to say, “We are going to do it our way and push through what we want whether it is right for him or not.” The two former presidents Trump is most often compared to are Reagan (for the unserious image that Reagan had as a B-list movie actor) and Richard Nixon (for his authoritarian tendencies, his paranoia, and his antipathy toward the press). But those presidents, this senior administration official explained, had “a real ideology and a real set of issues, and that doesn’t exist here.”
Unlike previous presidents, Trump has also neglected to appoint a professional staff with a high-level governing or White House background. This is due in part to ignorance. As reported in The Wall Street Journal, in his first meeting with Barack Obama, Trump seemed surprised by the scope of the president’s duties, and his aides seemed unaware that there wasn’t a permanent West Wing staff that he would simply inherit.
To get a sense of the current West Wing senior staff, I spoke with members of the administration, including some of those closest to the president, as well as with friends and former classmates of the senior team. Nearly all of them asked for anonymity in order to be able to speak freely. The West Wing right now is a place where the ground is always shifting. With the exception of two family members—Trump’s daughter Ivanka, an unpaid assistant to the president, and her husband, Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to the president—no one on Trump’s topmost White House staff has been with the new president for very long. That presents a sharp contrast with the teams around Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. Trump’s staff is as unbridled as the president himself. His advisers came together almost by accident and by default. They exhibit loyalty to their boss in front of the camera, only to whisper about him (and about their rivals, often in vicious terms) when the camera is gone.
Before they joined the campaign, many of the current staffers had shown no allegiance to Trump. Steve Bannon, at the moment still the chief strategist, and the self-styled intellectual leader of Trump’s base of “deplorables,” as Hillary Clinton called them, had tried on several other politicians—Sarah Palin, Rick Santorum, Ben Carson, Ted Cruz—before settling on Trump, whom Bannon referred to last year in Vanity Fair as a “blunt instrument” for his own cause. Reince Priebus, Trump’s current chief of staff, is hardly a longtime loyalist. According to two senior administration officials, shortly before the election Priebus, then the chairman of the Republican National Committee, was heard telling aides that Trump was likely going to lose, and that if he did it should not be seen as the fault of the R.N.C. At the same moment, Trump’s campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, who had previously worked on the Cruz campaign, was heard telling reporters that if Trump lost it would be the fault of the R.N.C. (This despite her clarification on Twitter on Election Day that she wasn’t blaming the R.N.C. or Priebus.) The Priebus-Conway story circulates inside the Ivanka camp as a way of reminding everyone who Trump’s real allies are. But even Ivanka has told friends, almost by way of apology, “I didn’t ask for this.” Senior administration officials told me that both Bannon and Priebus partisans have spent hours on the phone with reporters, planting stories about each other and their colleagues.
All West Wing staffs come to reflect the presidents they serve. Trump’s West Wing is beginning to resemble the family real-estate business Trump grew up in, which has always had more in common with The Godfather than with The Organization Man. Trump has pulled family close. Kushner now occupies the office that is physically closest to the Oval Office. Ivanka Trump has taken on an official role despite her initial intention to simply be “a daughter.” The appointees who have been championed by Ivanka and Jared seem at the moment to be on the rise—no surprise to some. “There is an asymmetry here. You can’t compare family members to other staffers,” the West Wing veteran told me. “You aren’t going to fire your son-in-law or your daughter.” A close associate of Trump’s narrowed that safe zone even further: “Everyone is dispensable, except one person: Ivanka.” But, this person warned, speaking of Jared and Ivanka, “at some point you get them out of this,” because otherwise they are going to get destroyed. The best rule of thumb for survival may come from Thomas Barrack Jr., a longtime friend and ally of the president’s: “Anyone who works for him and becomes victim to unfounded hubris will quickly be taken down to size.”

Process finished with exit code 1
